EduCRM Arch/Ownership Sync
Wed, Feb 4, 2026

0:00 - Serban Petrescu
What's up?

0:03 - Fernando Pina dos Santos
All good.

0:07 - Serban Petrescu
I was just helping Sergio recover an outage on CoachBot. Can't wait for it to die already. It's like... So that's what all of those messages were about. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So many people still use it, although theoretically they shouldn't.

0:26 - Unidentified Speaker
They're students?

0:28 - Serban Petrescu
Yeah, it seems like there are a bunch of students on the old education stack still. Because as soon as it exploded, and it wasn't even in the middle of a school day, we got a million messages saying, So yeah. So wait for Sammy, I know we just had the meeting and he had something in the middle. So hopefully... He finishes up and joins. Hey, Dmitry.

1:18 - Dmitry Bakaev
Hey, Siobhan.

1:28 - Serban Petrescu
I included the book that I asked Fernando and Abhinav to prepare a bit.

1:39 - Dmitry Bakaev
Okay, I don't like to talk with modules and it kind of also went over the diagram just again like this is something that's discussed for several months now. They're kind of pretty much fully aligned on the diagram and the modules.

2:07 - Serban Petrescu
OK, so looking at the two diagrams that you created, Fernando, the only thing that I wonder is if we will be able to eventually displace final site, which was just adopted, or if these people will want to keep it long term. I don't.

2:33 - Dmitry Bakaev
I don't. I think I'm pretty sure we're going to be displacing it.

2:39 - Serban Petrescu
Yeah, they don't seem very... At least last time I had a meeting with Corey, he was mentioning that it's just... Like, it works, but it's not... The reason why it would be a kind of a tragedy if we keep it, I was discussing with him just a couple of days ago, and he was telling me how horrible it is to integrate with it. And it's not the most reliable integration that we've built.

3:07 - Dmitry Bakaev
Yeah, I don't know if we need to integrate a lot with it. But I think from the get-go, the idea was we try it, we learn from it, and then we replace it. Once we're ready with our solution, we replace it. That was always the discussion.

3:21 - Serban Petrescu
Yeah, the only thing is that when these kind of people get used to something, It's just... I hope it's easy enough to get them unused to it.

3:33 - Dmitry Bakaev
That means we should get something better in place. Something that's clearly better. It's just the problem is we don't have anything in place.

3:44 - Serban Petrescu
Yeah, and this is one of the things that I think we need to fix, and we also need to acknowledge, which is that we've been talking about doing this for half a year, but we never did it. And sometimes I wonder, do I need to add more people to this from our side? But I don't necessarily think that's probably the solution. I think we need to kind of set some boundaries, or not boundaries, but I don't know, like, who is working on what from an engineering perspective, at least to Fernando, to have the peace of mind to say, okay, I'm accepting cases where burns in the old stack, I'm focusing on building the new stack. And Essam can do the same on the other side.

4:33 - Dmitry Bakaev
My gut feels it will take more than two people.

4:37 - Serban Petrescu
We can discuss sizing, right? You're muted. I think Google auto-mutes you because you are too many people. I included the doc in the invite, Sammy, if you want to open it. Dmitry also included one in the chat here. In this doc.

5:09 - Dmitry Bakaev
I'll also drop it in the chat here.

5:18 - Serban Petrescu
I included in the invite. I asked Fernando to draw a diagram just to show what we have right now and what we want to get to. Let me remove the heading. Maybe we start just by me going a bit through what I would want to obtain from this meeting, and maybe then Samy can add what you want to obtain from this meeting?

5:47 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Yeah, I think it'd be good to start off with what decisions are we trying to make in the meeting?

5:56 - Serban Petrescu
What's grounded in that?

5:59 - Serban Petrescu
From my perspective, why I wanted to have kind of alignment meeting here is that I feel like when we started this project, if you look back to the start, kind of the promise that we tried shipping to our customers and stakeholders has been that we take this fucking mess that they have in their world, and we try to organize it and AI-ify it in a way that is much more scalable. We consider the fundamental problem right now to be complete lack of scalability, no processes, very ad hoc, and in the end, not really matching the brand that Alpha has. That was the initial mission statement. Now, if you ask me from the outside, and here I would let the guys criticize this view, but from the outside, it seems like we have fallen short when it comes to delivering this core mission. The reason why I say this is because we have improved point-wise their systems here and there, we have stabilized some of the jungle, but it's still kind of a spaghetti bowl. You can look at the diagram, the first diagram, and I actually asked Fernando to simplify it. It's still like a mess of a million arrows going from one direction to the other just because it's a spaghetti ball. So what I would want to align is to align on a system architecture. Now that we understand it very well, now that Fernando did, with Dmitry and Abhinav, did the teardown of the systems that we are trying to own and rebuild here, to align on a target architecture on a target vision for this area, let's say, and then to try to assign Ownership from engineering, from a product perspective, from whatever perspective, that ensures that we reach that target vision. Because right now, from the outside, my main concern is that we are not progressing towards this target vision almost at all, or we haven't progressed that much in the past months, primarily because we've been torn in a million different directions. I think we tried shipping several different things in parallel, and we kind of didn't do anything. And I mean, again, we stabilized some stuff. We improved things here pointwise. But in the end, I don't think we are much closer now to the target vision than we were a few months back. And I will just end this kind of monologue with two things. I think one failure that we've allowed to happen and here I also blame myself for sure, is that the admissions team has basically said, we kind of give up on you guys building something for us and they bought something, a commercial solution for the admissions side, which is final site, which they say it's bad, we say it's bad, everybody thinks it's bad, it's just they don't have an alternative. So we kind of failed them and they kind of had to go to buy a commercial solution that is suboptimal. And on the other side, I think we kind of made a mistake in the way in which we built the communities project, which I think kind of deteriorated our standing in the org and with Joe and so on. So I would highlight that the fact that we are doing too many things in parallel has allowed this kind of two, in the end, failures in our org to occur.

9:20 - Dmitry Bakaev
Yeah, just on the final side, just some background on this. I mean, the final side, the decision to go with final site was, and that's, by the way, the best commercial solution, like best commercially available solution that's on the market today, was to always do it. We wanted to run from it, but it was going to get replaced.

9:44 - Serban Petrescu
I'll just point out there, as we discussed about the timeline back in August, I think it was that they will roll it out in October. I think they rolled it out in December. Now in January, I don't even know. Did they even roll it out So it was very delayed, and we didn't have anything. There was no alternative. We said that we would build something, and we didn't start building anything. It just was always at the state of a potential project to help them there. So I think this puts us in a fairly delicate position, because it's not the best solution out there, but now we are coupled with it somewhat. So let's see.

10:25 - Dmitry Bakaev
So somewhat, yeah.

10:29 - Serban Petrescu
And basically, how I would consider final site is like kind of this legacy, big enterprise, hard to configure, hard to manage kind of heavyweight solution that was designed primarily for other types of schools, not alpha, like typical schools, more or less. So that's Yeah, that's the context there.

11:02 - Dmitry Bakaev
In terms of final site, I mean, again, I think we definitely want a custom build solution for alpha. Just my experience so far, again, like I was there from the beginning, I won't say it's hard to configure, but of course, we don't have the same freedom as we would with our own solution, because that is something we should go through support for. It is very comprehensive, though, and we actually learned some lessons from it. For example, how to manage households. And some of this actually made its way into this. To this spec.

11:56 - Samy Aboel-Nil
So my point of view on all this is that I don't care so much about architectures and all this technical shit. And our customer doesn't either.

12:13 - Serban Petrescu
Sure, but just to intervene there a bit, unfortunately now they do have to care because now they have like five different systems that have to interface with. So because of that, they do have to care. So the point in the architecture that I want us to align on is that I think the long-term solution is to have one thing for each user to use. To not have to manage the complexity of synchronizing by hand data between multiple systems and spreadsheets and all the bullshit that is going on right now.

12:45 - Dmitry Bakaev
I think that's the vision. I mean, you'll still have HubSpot. It's not going away in this model. But that's not the primary. It's primarily used for marketing and events management and communication. It's not the primary system for admissions. And that's what the chart shows. I mean, that's what we agreed on, I think. Maybe two months ago.

13:15 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Let me just cut the crap here. The problem isn't scalability. The problem is quality and automation. The problem that alpha has is they want higher quality experience. It was the experience of a family going through the admissions process, the upper part of the funnel was lousy. There were all these manual steps and then manual steps lead to some people falling between the cracks and some people not getting a response after days or even weeks, high quality leads, not getting a response or a huge variability in the quality of the responses. Some people do it well, some people do it poorly. Is being breached, a chaotic process, you know, that wasn't well known. Different people doing it differently, whether it's like, oh, you do need to pay before or after the shadow day. How much do you pay in this city or this school? It works this way. In that place, it works another way. And all of that can't scale. It's not a technical thing. It's just like, you can't have a process that is ill-defined with without quality, non-standardized, non-automated, non-scalable. It was just a shitty experience, right? Alpha is this high-end brand, AI, the future, expensive, all that. And then parents apply and they're like, this fucking seems like a mess. How are you guys going to react to me? How are you guys sending me these boilerplate shitty marketing emails? How are you not, right? It just didn't feel like a high quality process because of all those That was the thing that kicked off this project, right?

15:07 - Dmitry Bakaev
There were several contributing points. Like number one, a lot of manual steps, you know, manual, you know, emails being sent back and forth, you know, having to like schedule shadow days manually. And also another part of it was the admission side, the use of HubSpot for admissions. And then just having a difficult time navigating and, you know, you set the wrong you know, you get the wrong values. And so it was just complexity of the system. I think these were the two contributing factors. Well, a lot of manual stuff is just the general complexity.

15:42 - Samy Aboel-Nil
That's a tool thing. I mean, CRMs or systems like Salesforce and HubSpot, they're basically rich data models with a UI layer. That salespeople or marketing people use to keep track of shit. Now, that's the dumb, simple version, right? Now, then there's. Adapters that bring things in, whether it's a phone call transcript and things that push things out, like for reporting, then there's views and reports. Then there's stages in a, you know, a pipeline, then there's automations. And so. That's all all these apps are is just a data model with a UI and then opinionated layers to manage the complexity so it isn't just a crud UI on top of a database but at its core that's what it is what keeps it from being shitty is the layer of management and the more you can identify things to automate away completely right so there are are Salesforce deployments where all it is, is just a view of contacts, a view of opportunities, a view of contracts, and everybody does whatever the F they want. They just search the objects and they edit the objects and everybody does their own workflow and their own process, right? That's one extreme. What we're trying to do with this was rationalize all of that, standardize all of that, and automate as much of it as possible. And on that dimension, we've done a mediocre job. I mean, some things, I think it's gone in the right direction. It's gotten worse. And a bunch of things I think are better, but there's still like tons more to do. In the meantime, the customer's perception, the customer's view is we move slowly. We're not really keeping up. They innovate new ideas, communities, and we're not even doing the old stuff. So we can't take on communities, right?

17:53 - Serban Petrescu
Or whatever.

17:58 - Samy Aboel-Nil
We're not keeping up. And so they're like, well, we can't wait. Our business can't wait. Our business can't block on you. So yeah, of course. I don't know. I'd be doing the same thing. I'd be like, okay, let's just let's let's go buy off-the-shelf product we can because at least it's something it's not perfect but at least it's something and I can make forward progress and and yes that does make our life in some way more complicated because now we have this other object that we don't control we have to we have to conform our design around the object not the other way around but that's but that is literally that's just the reality.

18:39 - Dmitry Bakaev
I was I was involved in a decision right like this was the it's just at the time where Well, there were some, also a little bit as expected misrepresentation, but at the time when this decision was made in July, we needed a system that would take the admissions flow from start to finish, including where parents could go to it completely autonomously and include the billing, which at this time we didn't really have an SIS and didn't even own that SIS at that point. And the key was we would deploy it, we would learn from it, and we'll use it as a basis of building a final system for alpha. That was always a discussion. It was never a discussion that this is going to be a permanent system that's going to be in there forever.

19:23 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Okay, whatever. I don't care if it is. Maybe it being a permanent part of the system is a good thing. I'm all for pattern reuse. I'm not trying to rebuild any AWS services around here. So if final site does something, we have to decide what is the thing it can do well? What is the pattern that actually we don't mind having in our world? What's the API? What is the shape of the thing that Final Sight does well that isn't a bastardization? That's our job as TPMs is to find that. This is the best way to use Final Sight. I'm sure it does something. I'd be surprised if the answer is, Final Sight doesn't add any value. It's our job to define what is the shape of that pattern that final site does well, and bring it into our overall architecture in a way that we're really happy with. And then that depends on API's that depends on functionality that depends on our requirements versus what their thing supports. It depends on all kinds of stuff. That's what we do. That's that's what we do in design. Is it right? Yeah, I mean, we should take I don't think that having HubSpot is bad I don't think that having final site is bad I don't think that having a third-party community site like I think they were talking about using disco but then they're maybe gonna migrate it to something else I don't think that using any of those third-party patterns is necessarily a bad thing What I care about is, do we make good technical decisions on the design? What is the shape of that pattern? How do we connect to it? How do we Read from it? What functionality do we do? What functionality do we not do? How do we manage it? How do we automate it? How do we Sync data? What stuff is synced? What stuff is dynamic? These are all technical decisions. That's the stuff that matters. And so that's on the point of, Do we need to own all of this or not own all of this or use third parties? That answer isn't as simple as we should or we shouldn't. Do the design.

21:39 - Serban Petrescu
No, we have to make ITDs, right? I'm just saying that they didn't make necessarily like... We didn't do this. Like Dimitris said, the initial idea was let's do an experiment. It wasn't even like a long-term kind of let's commit to it or not. And now we are kind of finding out after the fact much effort it will be to kind of fit it in our pattern.

22:01 - Serban Petrescu
What I'm hearing is you guys should have been in the leadership position driving this, but you weren't.

22:04 - Samy Aboel-Nil
People have been talking about using a third-party app like Final Sight since June. And we're like, oh, now we're finding out that there's things we like and things we don't like, Well, OK. We had from June until now to say, this is the right way to use Final Sight. These are the ITDs. These are the data objects that are going to live in Final Sight. This is the APIs that we're going to use to put data in and get data out. How we're gonna couple it in a way that is good coupling. And we didn't do all those things and now we're on our heels responding. That's what I'm hearing. But can we just pop up a level from third party apps and final site? The bigger picture issue is, we're not driving this project out of some like technical architecture purity. The technical decision and the architecture serve our ultimate objective. What's our ultimate objective? It's to increase the quality and the consistency of the experience. Whether it's the experience of the admissions process, the shadow process, the billing process, there's all these different processes that make up the big picture. And we want that experience to be great. A great experience means a lot of things. A great experience means it's consistent and high quality, which means you try to remove human variability. We talked about this a lot in the factory, right? And Fernando and Abhinav, you know, I spent a lot of time talking with Shobhan Dmitry, you and I less. So some of the stuff I might repeat that either you've heard before but I know for a fact they've heard it before. We're not chasing this because of cost reduction. But I've always found that when you chase quality, you always get cost reduction and scalability. But I'm not chasing scalability. I'm not chasing cost reduction. I'm chasing quality. And every time you do the root cause on quality problems, you end up wanting to automate something because automation follows your instructions. Every time doesn't fucking wake up one day and decide to kind of not follow your directions or be variable based on staffing or all that stuff. And so we, for example, look at a process like the admissions process or the shadow day process or the payment process or any process. And we say, I need to look at this first and foremost and say, is this a high-quality process? And the main thing I'm looking for is, right, is it as simple as it could be? And I delete things. You know what process everybody loves? A process that's short and simple and fast, one click. And so first you look at the experience from the customer's perspective and we say, how could I delete any steps? How could I, is there here that's unnecessary? Is there anything here that's slow? Because the other thing people don't like is waiting. If you have a step in the process where I have to submit something and hear something back, if you can delete the wait, everybody's always happy. Why is Calendly so useful? It's not like people couldn't email back and forth on what time to meet. It's because fucking it sucks. First off, it's a waste of my time. Second, I have to wait to find out when I can meet. No, just bring up your calendar. Book of time, I eliminated, I eliminated the work of asking you and you getting back, I deleted the work. So and then we have quality. Does this website render correctly on mobile? Is the content shit content? Or is it high quality content? And all of those things have a massive ability to be improved by AI. And so I'm going somewhere with this, bear with me, I appreciate your patience here. We could take this conversation in 10 different ways. And I've already had at least two or three of them with Serban and two or three of them with Dmitry. We tackle this from a technical standpoint, an architecture diagram. Who owns the SIS project? The hop of the funnel HubSpot project? What about these third-party things? There's all these different ways we could tackle it. I'm not saying they're wrong, but it's not the first-order approach that is in my head. Before I get to the first-order approach that's in my head, I want to mention another thing. I'm sure everyone you touched on a little bit, but if we do a proper Post-mortem, if we really look at ourselves in the mirror and really assess ourselves accurately, it'll make it easier to do better going forward. And an area where I give ourselves very low marks is our ability to translate requirements into specifics in a way that the customer ends up liking. There's a bunch of examples where We've implemented something and the customer doesn't like it. The extreme example, big, big project example is communities where it's like, we got the gist of an idea and Joe does this all the time. He has a, he has a brilliant insight on a strategy and approach. And he says, here's the idea, but then somebody has to go do all the work of defining it. To follow that strategy. Communities, the reason why I say I really thought it was really very brilliant is the insight. To me, what's so exciting, I think it's one of the coolest ideas we've had in the last year on education. The notion was Alpha has this great brand. I mean, it's in all the news outlets, fucking every day I get another super famous person a video or an article or another super famous person talking about Alpha. It's incredible. The one I watched yesterday, by the way, was this guy, Geoffrey Hinton, this British professor who's like the godfather of AI. Like, Alia Sylvester was a student under him and he did all this early formative work on back propagation and all that kind of stuff. And he did this interview the other week on BBC. And he's super doom and gloom about AI. He's like, this is terrible. I can't believe I had anything to do with creating it. He's like super, super negative on AI. And at the end of the interview, the BBC interviewer was like, is there anything positive? And his answer was, well, in education, there's this school called Alpha in Austin, who's using AI in an awesome way. And he describes it as nutsy stuff, right? Anyway, my point is, on communities, we've got this great program this great reach and Joe's insight was to sell people from when they first hear about us from a news article and go to our website to go from that to you enrolling the best way is to build a robust community that they become a part of so they're hearing about things from other families and kids who are already in the school ones that are seriously considering it and about to start different layers. And then we have events, we have dinners, we have chances to meet people, referrals by people that would be a good referral to you. There's all these ways to think about building a community and have the community be your evangelists and your best selling tool. I think that's an awesome insight. Now to act on that insight and define all the features and the screens and how it should work and all this is a bunch of work that requires expertise. It requires somebody to actually go build deep expertise on how communities work, how to use a community to affect influence and selling and what are the ten tenants and what you know there's all this stuff to go from that direction to being an expert at that and having a spiky point of view, a second brain, important decisions, then prioritizing features chairs and building them and testing them and iterating the data, that's the product owner role. And the product owner role needs expertise. And so we haven't done that, I think, exceptionally well. There's some areas that are more straightforward where it's 80% technical work and 20% expertise work. We do better at those. So when it's like, I don't know, there's this manual DOM process where people are copy pasting fields. Can we automate that away? Yeah, we do better at those. Or, you know, we can't have people sit here, violating SLA is like, you know, somebody has to get somebody's supposed to give them an offer, you know, before five o'clock p.m., whenever they do a shadow day at the school, and that's not happening. Can you guys track that? Can you guys make an SLA? Can you guys make an exception escalation when it doesn't happen? Yeah, we can listen to that. And we can automate that. That's stuff we do pretty well. We've done a bunch of that. And that's valuable. And we should continue to do it. We have to be real. The types of projects that require a lot of expertise and stuff like the, I would put like the final site project may be somewhere in the middle. Automating a bunch of tactical things is one end of the spectrum. Taking high level guidance on communities and building all that is way the other end of the spectrum. Somewhere in the middle might be something like final site project.

32:56 - Dmitry Bakaev
Can I just, a few points about those communities?

32:59 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Yeah, no. No, I don't want to hear a point about communities.

33:04 - Dmitry Bakaev
But just about the expertise, right?

33:07 - Samy Aboel-Nil
I mean, we have to be realistic. Do you disagree with something that I said?

33:13 - Dmitry Bakaev
I agree with expertise, right? But, you know, there's, the expertise takes time, right? For example, for SIS, we have no expertise right now because we we've lived it, right, for the last four or five months, right? I mean, we worked through the whole process and, you know, like, we have the expertise, but for some, for communities, right, it takes time to acquire expertise, right?

33:38 - Samy Aboel-Nil
I mean, it's just... But this, I think, these are two different types of expertise.

33:42 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Some projects require a lot of expertise. Some projects require a small amount of expertise. I think we can probably all agree. And having expertise, Having the sufficient level of expertise is mandatory. I hope you're not arguing that it isn't. If you're just saying some projects require a lot of expertise, sure, yes, I agree. Now the point is we need to do better at getting the needed expertise or we find somebody else who can own the expertise part, but this this notion of taking on projects or sub-projects that clearly require expertise and then we don't have it and we don't build it is not something I want to repeat. I don't know whether that's resolved by saying no to those projects, that's an option, or how much time we spend building expertise or who on our team builds expertise and who doesn't, but we have to solve that problem. I'm not doing any more projects that require expertise. And we don't have a plan for getting the expertise, getting it or building it or finding it or hiring it or whatever. Do you disagree with that? Are you just saying a lot of expertise and that's a lot of work.

35:05 - Dmitry Bakaev
We either need to bring it from outside and Elliot was the person outside and brought that expertise. Or we need to have a clear way to build it, because none of us have the expertise.

35:18 - Samy Aboel-Nil
I know. Here's the options. Either we don't take projects that require expertise, because you guys can't gain it. That's one option. Okay with that. We'll just say no to those projects. Another one is we build the expertise that we need. And a third option is some projects, we don't have the expertise, it's but somebody else has the expertise, and we're going to work with them to get it. I had one call with the guy, Elliot, who they put on the communities project. In 10 minutes, he clearly has domain expertise in communities.

36:08 - Unidentified Speaker
He's been doing it for 10 years.

36:10 - Samy Aboel-Nil
That's 1,000 more than what anyone on this call has. So that's fine. That's a workable path. That's a solution I can be comfortable with.

36:19 - Dmitry Bakaev
100% aligned with that.

36:24 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Anyway, where I'm going with this is, I think that the surface area of this project is quite large. And the first thing we need is a way to take this map of the world and break it down into like some continents or countries or something like that in a logical way. Country boundaries tend to evolve around oceans and mountain ranges and things like that. They're not random unless a colonial power is involved, then it becomes totally random. But so first thing we need to do is take that big picture and figure out what is the right way to kind of divide and conquer this project. Second, for each of those areas, I'd like you guys to listen to this approach. And then if you guys think it's wrong or you want to add to it, please do. But we need a first principles strategy that we all agree on that's like the fundamental way we're going to divide and conquer the problem and the fundamental way. If we're going back to the question in the beginning, what's the number one question that that I want to have answered in this call that would be progress for the hour spent. It would be getting alignment on why we've struggled and where we've struggled, which I think is the conversation we kind of just had. And then second, it would be how to divide and conquer the big problem and how to assign DRI Ownership to those chunks. Who is going to own each of those chunks? And what do they own about it in the event that there are multiple owners for different domain areas? And so that's the thing that I think we should do is we should say, what is the entire surface area? What is the right logical way to break the surface area up into some chunks? Number one. Number two, for each of those chunks, who is going to be the directly responsible And is there just one? Or do we want to do a model, which I think we will need to do where we say, there's one person who's the subject matter, domain, product owner, whatever you want to call it, owner. And then there's another person who is the technical implementation owner. And there could be a case where one person's name is on both of those for a chunk. I'm not saying that's impossible, but I don't think it should be required, because there are a lot of cases I can think of where we have the talent and the ability to say, we're going to be the technical owner. I'm going to make sure technically we're not doing dumb stuff, but where we're not the product expert, and we need to go partner with that person. And I'm also open to some areas where we say we have the technical expertise, right now to be the technical owner. And the product knowledge required is reasonable enough for us to go build it. We don't have it today. But it's reasonable enough, we're going to go build it final site could be an example of that, where one of you is going to own the product expertise and the technical expertise on final. So I don't think that's out of reach. If we're sitting down right now having that conversation about communities, I'd be like, I don't think that's a good idea. There's so much to know on communities. And there's people we can hire like Elliot, let's just go partner with that, right?

39:59 - Serban Petrescu
But I think, just to give my opinion here, I think for a strong product owner, it doesn't need to have all the expertise on a specific subject. They can partner with external SME. There is a reason why I don't want to allow a math teacher to build a math app, to be the product owner for math app, which is that the product leader has skills around designing, simplifying requirements that are around software that transcend the domain knowledge, right?

40:35 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Well, let's talk about that for a moment. There's a big difference between being the customer and being the product designer or the product owner. Word SME or product owner or product designer to me is all synonymous that when I say all those I mean the same person and here's a great example of that right yesterday Dmitry and I were talking he's like well if we just implement what Alpha wants they've got you know the person who does I can't remember what process it was some part of the admissions process in Los Angeles they have an interview before this step and in this other they have it after the step. So we have to handle that. We have to handle that complexity. I'm like, no, we don't. That's completely false. I guarantee you, Joe does not want us to implement processes that vary in insignificant and irrelevant ways across different cities. I think he would hate that. Our job in that case is to gather requirements from the customer. And when they say something that's wrong, we correct them and we explain it and we drive the standard. And sometimes that means we switch everything to do the interview before the step. Sometimes it means we do it after the step. If we find that, you know, it really, there's a strong reason why sometimes it needs to be then we're going to design a process that has a conditional. But that process is going to be the same for every city. If the logic is right to have a conditional, the logic is going to be conditional everywhere. We care about that. I do not expect alpha to care about that. They're not designers. But we are. So yeah. Or another example, right? They've got a manual process. Right now, they have some manual steps. Some human being has to know that when this thing comes in, they have to Read it, they have to make a decision, they have to write something they have to send. I don't want them to tell us what's the best way to automate that you guys should be looking and be like, Oh, I can I can I can I automatically detect it? And I can't I automatically make that decision? And I can't I automatically write that email? What would I need to do to write that email? Does there need to be a quality review with the human until we have confidence? And then I can turn the quality review off. Those are all things you think about as you move the work into a high quality, automated, good process. That's the job. Not to say yes to everything that they ask for. And you should be able to do that in consultation with them. The way our customers should feel is that I get on a call with any of you, and I explain what we're doing and you look and you you do your own investigation on what you're doing. And then gosh, I'm sure glad I have these technical people, because they come back, and they explain the standard automated process they want to implement. And they asked me for feedback on it. I don't know how to do that. They know how to do it. I'm glad some about how to automate it, how to make it standard, and then they check it with me, and sometimes I point out issues, and we work things out, and then we have a plan, and then they seem to deliver it. After we have that plan that I like, then they deliver it. Why can't we do that? And so, I would break it up by these areas, like the re-enrollment process. I would try to create focused, granular experience. Think about it this way. Here's how I think about it is that we want to take an experience centric view. An experience centric view says you start everything with the customer's eyes. And the way you think about it is customers interact with your company or your brand. That's what they do. So group those into clusters, give an owner for each cluster, because there's a lot of leverage and relevance. And then it's their job to document and understand the process, make sure the important decisions are aligned by everybody, like the school. It's not up to us to decide what are the steps and the admission requirements of the school, right? That's not us. But you don't have to ask them, and you have to fill in gaps in their requirements, and you have to deal with the fact that sometimes we deploy a process, and then they learn from it, and then they want to change their mind. That's all just the real world. So you don't have to come up with that, but you have to drive it. You have to say, okay, I had a call with you. I think I understood the emissions process. I'm going to come back tomorrow with the flow chart. We're going to walk through it. I'm going to make sure you agree with it. I'm going to make sure it's going to identify some gaps we forgot to talk about. So I need you to tell me what happens on this branch. We didn't talk about it. And then when everybody likes it, then we implement it. And then we find where it's failing us that we didn't anticipate. And then we bring that up in another meeting and we change it. That's the job. That's called being a product owner. It's not technical. Architectures, it's who's the customer, what experience do we want to make great? The end customer. And then who's our immediate customer, the school. And we collaborate with them, and we iterate and we improve. And if we do that right, they look at us as invaluable. Because they say, gosh, it's because of you that we have such a documented process, not tribal knowledge. It's because of you we've converged on one way to do it everywhere instead of randomness. It's because of you that we've incrementally automated away a bunch of the manual work so that what's left is the kind of stuff that human beings really do need to do. It's because of you that the process from start to finish for a customer has become fewer clicks and fewer minutes. That's what we need to That's our job. And so, if we're all aligned on that, then the approach I would take, like I said, is let's identify the entire surface area, all of, you know, the globe. What are the logical ways to break it up? The fact that some of those experience flows live on HubSpot, and some of them do live on HubSpot is like a big mountain range. That's going to, I think, have some influence on how you separate these things. But there's other considerations too. That's not the only one.

47:50 - Serban Petrescu
Another consideration is who is the target user, right?

47:54 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Who's the target user? Who's the target end user and who's the target staff at Alpha? Like if there's an admissions team under Rachel and they do X, Y, and Z, they spend their hours doing X, Y, and Z, you're going to be more likely to want to group X, Y, and Z together because it's the same customer, the same whatever. So yeah, the end customer is a source of affinity. The alpha customer is a source of affinity. The technical architect is a source of affinity. If X, Y, and Z all belong in final site, you're probably going to want to club those together. Because the one person who's doing that probably makes sense, right? So my suggestion, the thing that would make me feel good is if we were all very aligned on what we've done well and what we haven't done well. We're all very aligned on the last five minutes of what I said about what we need to focus focus on what they would think of us, the types of decisions we need to make, the way we need to operate. And then if we took the universe of things and we had a good way of breaking it down. I don't know what that is. I need you guys to present that. This is the good way. It's basically the way to break it up is in five big chunks. Here's the five chunks. And then there are in each chunk. An experience is like, for example, it is time to re-enroll. We need an experience flow that goes from the day it is time to re-enroll to your re-enrollment is complete. So the owner of that bucket needs to say, in my bucket, I don't know what we call that bucket, something higher, a level higher than re-enrollment, that person says, Oh, I've got eight experience flows that I own. One of them is the re-enrollment process, the re-enrollment experience. And then they drive that, right? They're the ones that write down the process and the ITDs and they implement it and they constantly improve it. You know, you might say, Oh, you know, the first thing is we send them an email and we send them a link and they can do their own re-enrollment. But if they don't open the link, then this happens. If they open the link, but they still don't enroll, then a human needs to call. I don't know what the fucking process is. If you show me one, I'll give you some feedback on whether I think it's right or wrong, but the school can do that. And you can do that and just do it. And then build it and ship it and then incrementally improve it. I think that's another one that I wanna spend two minutes on a soapbox here is, I want us across the board to get better at incremental delivery, incremental shipping, incremental learning, and not, I have to comprehensively understand everything, I have to comprehensively design, I have to comprehensively hold it and release it. Part of the value...

51:17 - Serban Petrescu
I still want us to have a strategy though, right? Like just saying, I'm okay with incrementalism as long as there is some semblance of a long-term vision.

51:27 - Samy Aboel-Nil
The way I think about it, and I would doubt that you think about it differently, is the key thing is having first principles. And when you ship incrementally, you don't violate your first That's the right way, I think, to tackle it. The wrong way to tackle it is to say, the thing that I need is to have figured out stuff that's way down the road. Because you're not going to know that. Some of the stuff evolves. It's okay to learn. It's okay to pivot. It's okay to evolve. If you make that your bar, you will not ship. You won't. And you'll do a bunch of wasted work.

52:09 - Serban Petrescu
Talk against the waterfall basically. You're preaching against the waterfall now.

52:20 - Samy Aboel-Nil
The lever you pull massively is scope reduction. The lever you don't compromise on is first quality principles on what is right and what is wrong. If you have to re-engineer a bunch of your stuff, in a later iteration, and it was because you learn more about the requirements, and you learn more about the user, and what happens in the real world, that's okay. It's okay to re-engineer and rebuild things. What's not okay is to build shit, put it out, and then realize, oh, I thought this was done, but actually it was just shit. So anyway, in the next five minutes, we're not, we're going to have those groups and those owners in the next five minutes. So let's do that as the next step. And then let's have a follow on where that's what we review. But is there anything else in the next five minutes that would influence that approach or problems that we didn't discuss that we should or decisions that we need to make?

53:23 - Serban Petrescu
I think apart from like one area or one dimension over which we'll have to split at least a bit is that somebody has to be responsible for keeping the current, whatever process exists, working. Even if we don't plan on changing it fundamentally yet, or it's still down the line, and we maybe don't even understand it properly, somebody has to care about the school still running and people not complaining.

53:52 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Is it possible that if we split the surface area of everything that needs to be done into buckets, and each of those buckets has a bunch of experiences, Some of those experiences are the old and not changing. Some of those experiences are the old that we're going to incrementally transform. Some of those experiences are brand new. Why is it different?

54:16 - Serban Petrescu
I just think that some experiences will be so on the tail end that we don't even think about them right now because we don't even know exactly what they are doing right now.

54:24 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Well, let's try and make our map of the world include everything. Including stuff that is legacy, that needs to continue to be operated and maintained, and not have our map of the world just focus on bright, shiny new stuff. Is that the actionable goal? Everything needs to be part of that assessment, not just the new stuff.

54:52 - Dmitry Bakaev
You're referring to the existing SIS. For example. That has to run.

54:59 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Yeah, but the existing SIS isn't a bucket. There are, for example, process that uses the existing SIS that the owner is going to navigate through the seas, the turbulent sea from the old one to the new one. The buckets aren't fucking old SIS. It's what process.

55:21 - Serban Petrescu
I'm just saying that some process is on the old SIS. I don't think we really imagine fundamentally. I know CoachBot has a process to Sync data from all the sites. It's like, yeah, that has to just work and we won't change it fundamentally.

55:40 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Yeah, I mean, the thing that matters is the customer experience and the work that we're trying to automate with high quality. The secondary thing is what technology do we use? And that's up to the technology owner. To decide and communicate and build. In some cases, you're going to be like, this isn't perfect, but this isn't an area that's actively changing, and it works, and I'm in maintenance mode. In other areas, you're like, here's my transition plan. I'm going to do it incrementally in the following way. That's the derivative. So anyway, so that's what I'd love to see as a next step is how would you guys break apart the entire surface area into chunks that are the right chunk boundaries with all the considerations that we discussed, which backend system is doing it, customers and data model and all that, and that's number one. And number two would be nice is don't try to, it's okay if it's not 100%, 100% complete or exhausted, that's freaking fine. But what is your first crack at the owners for each of those? And then what are the experiences that make that up? What are the flows or the experiences that make it up? And then for that bucket, who would be the person who's going to build expertise and work closely with the customer on the requirements and analyze the data, like when we implement a process, we're not just done. Part of it is we keep an eye on how well is the process working? Because that's a source of ideas for improvement. Or maybe you look at the data, you're like, yeah, working exactly, it's exactly what I wanted to happen. We're done here. So all of that is the product owner, the product designer. So who's going to be that? And who's going to be the technical architect and lead? And I want to separate those, because there may There may be cases where we have the skill and ability to do the second one, and we don't have the skill and ability to do the first one. And there may be cases where we do have the ability to do them both. But you want that to be clear. So when do you guys think we can come back and review a first pass at that? I just want a first pass. It doesn't even have to be perfect. That's the answer I was looking for. I gotta be productive. That would be a step in the right direction for me. The right way to divide and conquer, the right Ownership, the right kind of operating model of what we care about, what we don't care about can enable us to move forward here.

58:37 - Dmitry Bakaev
Just question the experiences, right? We have, for example, if we talk about an admissions, we have a parent's experience, right? And it goes through some modules. And also, there's a parent that's doing the work, and they're going through the process, right? And then there's an admissions personnel, and there's a registrar. So these are three different users and three different actors. So I assume we're talking about the integrated experience of all it's participating in that process, not individual's experience.

59:12 - Samy Aboel-Nil
Yeah, it's, yes, it's the integrated one. An example is re-enrollment. Re-enrollment, of course, involves the family that's re-enrolling, but if it involves staff at Alpha, admissions officers who have to do certain things, that involves them too, or whomever else, yeah. Yeah, so take the integrated view yeah doing a shadow day a lead guide they have to book a time slot they have to have they get assigned a guide I don't know if there's something that happens the day before I don't know if there's something that happens the day after but yeah the top level is there is an experience that happens at a certain stage in the big picture, which is doing a shadow day for your student at the school. What is that process from start to finish? Okay, I've got a drop as well. All right.

1:00:20 - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you.

1:00:21 - Unidentified Speaker
Thank you.